the megalodon is the world's most famous
ancient predator big dangerous
and deadly the meg went extinct about
3.6 million years ago
or maybe it didn't some people claim to
have seen the giant sharks
others believe megalodons are hiding
from us deep in the ocean
where people had never been such as in
the mariana trench
also people constantly find megalodon
teeth
some think it's because the giant sharks
still exist
but are just trying to avoid attracting
attention
let's compare a human to this sea
monster
in the left corner we have an average
person
5 feet 10 inches tall and weighing 136
pounds
in the right corner a megalodon
average length 34 feet weight
about 50 tons so we're up against an
animal
the size of a school bus which has the
mass of a boeing 737
let's take a closer look at the
megalodon of course
it has teeth each one is 7.1 inches long
these are the largest teeth of any shark
species that has ever lived
the megalodon also had more teeth than
any other animal
250 teeth and five rows its jaw may have
been 6.6 feet
wide you could lie inside its mouth and
feel quite comfortable
of course only if you could forget that
you were lying in the mouth of an
ancient predator
if you put on an exoskeleton made of
titanium
an encounter with the meg wouldn't be so
dangerous but its jaws are still
capable of damaging even something as
tough as this
megalodon the greatest shark of all time
has been spotted in the waters of the
south
atlantic and now a group of researchers
are preparing for the expedition of a
lifetime
they'll need to locate catch and tag the
ocean predator to further study its
behavior
first of all they need a fishing boat
large enough to withstand the weight and
lunge force of such a huge shark
at the moment the only vessel close
enough to what they need
is osearch a former crabbing boat
refurbished to catch and tag great white
sharks
it's equipped with a sort of corral a
broad platform on the side
which the crew loads caught sharks these
beats are so
massive that researchers have to
counterbalance their boat with water
when they haul a shark on board
but although great whites are the
largest modern predatory charts
they're still much smaller than the
megalodon a great white
shark can grow up to 20 feet in length
and weigh over 2 tons
the megalodon on the other hand reached
60 to 80 feet
and weighed a whopping 50 tons no
fishing vessel can hold such a weight
right now
so a different approach had to be
devised the researchers decided to
follow the lead of their colleagues in
indonesia conservation international
tags whale shark
these are the largest of the modern
shark species they weigh up to 10 tons
since they feed on plankton just like
baleen whales they're not a threat to
humans
and they sometimes get caught in fishing
nets that's when fishers call on
scientists to tag them
a team of divers gets down to the shark
and places
a satellite tag on its dorsal fin then
the shark is let loose
the megalodon hunt is going to be
different though fossilized teeth of
these gigantic predators
reach the size of seven inches over
three times larger than the teeth of
great whites
their weight also has to be taken into
account if the surviving mag somehow
gets into a fishing net
it'll probably just tear it apart with
its sheer mass
helping with its monstrous teeth
industrial fishing nets are usually made
of synthetic materials such as nylon or
polyester
in this particular case something much
sturdier has to be deployed
in the end the scientist's choice fell
on the common shark fishing practice
a drift gill net it's a set of nets that
catch
fish by the gills and they drift near
the surface or in mid water
just where most sharks usually dwell the
megalodon doesn't like coal
so it won't dive too deep and will
probably be closer to the surface
where the water is warmer the big and
flexible net will entangle the shark
not letting it tear through and get away
there will also have to be a larger mesh
size
the mag is massive and will get caught
anyway
while smaller fish will swim through no
problem
in july 1916 the new jersey coast of the
u.s
was left terrified after a series of
shark attacks
it happened during an oppressive heat
wave when hundreds of beachgoers tried
to escape the heat near the water
people described the culprit that caused
all that havoc
as a giant shark much bigger than any
regular one
since then scientists have been debating
which shark species was involved in
those accidents
the most popular guesses have been the
bull shark and the great white
while swimming in a tropical sea pretty
much anywhere in the world
you might come across a massive shark
the animal's length could reach up to 40
feet
the largest specimen ever seen was a
mind-boggling 62 feet long
it's the length of four large hippos the
creature also has a colossal gaping
mouth
up to five feet in a large specimen so
warm waters huge size formidable jaws
is it the megalodon just a whale shark
despite its impressive bulk this
creature is slow
moving and totally docile it may grow as
long as the meg used to
but isn't likely to be as heavy the
whale shark is a filter
feeder and its favorite food is plankton
the animal also hates low temperatures
any colder than 70 degrees fahrenheit
and it's already too cold for the shark
the first pictures of a huge shark
roaming the pacific ocean
not far from guadalupe island appeared
in 1999.
the creature got the name deep blue it
could be distinguished from others of
its kind
by a wavy pattern separating its gray
back and white belly
but even though some people claimed it
could be the infamous megalodon
experts concluded it was a female white
shark the largest they had ever seen
the average length of a male white shark
is 11 to 13 feet
females are bigger up to 16 feet but
deep blue
reached 22 feet in length no wonder
people were confused
for the last time deep blue was spotted
in 2013
near the western coast of mexico's baja
california
but look there's another jumbo shark
that can be met in
any part of the world the largest
specimens reach 32 feet long and weigh
about
5 tons judging from the shark's size
it could be if not the megalodon itself
but one of its relatives
and again a wrong guess that's the
basking shark
it prefers subpolar seas with
temperatures not higher than 58 degrees
even though some of these animals do
migrate to warmer places
like whale sharks basking sharks are
harmless
and don't bother snorkelers or divers
giant oar fish the largest bony fish in
the world can be half as long as a semi
though some rare specimens have doubled
that
giant manta ray their wingspan can be
longer than a bus
they also have the biggest brain
compared to body size among all
fish unlike their stingray cousins
mantas don't have venomous tails
orca this largest of dolphin species
actually has different cultures two
orcas from different groups won't even
understand each other's language
they're the only animal known to do this
dunkleosteus
strangely enough this prehistoric fish
known as the t-rex
of the seas had no teeth those were
replaced with bony plates
that allowed it to have the strongest
bite among other monsters of its size
cameroceras yep it's a giant prehistoric
mollusk ninety percent of its entire
body was a cone shell
this made it motionless and it fed by
waiting for prey
in ambush for hours kronosaurus
one of the largest of the plyosaurs
which were marine reptiles
remains of one specimen showed that
these monsters fed on dinosaurs
catch a lot the most massive toothed
whale
has the biggest brain on earth theirs
weighs an
average of 15 pounds five times that of
an adult human
these massive marine mammals feed on
giant squid
bacillosaurus when its fossils were
first discovered it was mistaken for a
marine reptile
and given a name that means king lizard
but it's really a type of ancient whale
that had
small hind limbs say whale
the third largest whale species and one
of the fastest in the world
can reach speeds up to 30 miles per hour
that's rare for creatures of this size
shastasaurus the largest marine reptile
to
ever live would take up three-quarters
of a basketball court
it had no teeth so it probably ate by
lunging at schools of fish with its
mouth wide open
something called suction feeding blue
whale
the most massive creature to ever live
on earth is so big
that its heart alone is the size of a
golf cart and its vessels are as big as
buckets
their songs can be heard from hundreds
of miles away
but we still can't make out the lyrics
lion's mane jellyfish
this is the largest jellyfish in the
world imagine a tower bell with
tentacles
almost half as long as a football field
a jellyfish of this size can entangle
you with its tentacles
but they're not at the top of the marine
food chain they feed hungry sea turtles
and anemones
also pronounced anemones blue bottle
jellyfish
don't let the name fool you this strange
creature is actually
something called a siphonophore an
animal made up of a colony of organisms
it or they is the longest living being
on this planet
the tentacles which are a separate
organism from the float on top
is almost the length of the tower of
pisa and
they're venomous of course they are why
should we catch a break now
a diving instructor from port macquarie
australia
has been buddies with a female port
jackson shark for over half a decade
the man met his friend when the shark
was just a pup
at first he approached the shark
carefully not wanting to scare her off
pretty soon she got used to him and let
him pat
and even cradle her after that the two
became
regular friends the shark always
recognizes the man
and demands hugs at each visit he
doesn't want his story to encourage
others to take risks around these marine
creatures but he hopes people will stop
seeing them
as only aggressive attackers
if you're still not convinced that
sharks are pretty cool then get ready
to hear some amazing shark facts that'll
blow your mind
not all shark species live in the ocean
you can also see them in some freshwater
lakes and rivers
for instance bull sharks swim in
tropical rivers
but they also don't mind dipping their
fins in salt water
rivers in the areas of new guinea
australia and south asia
are home to river sharks sharks are
famous for their sense of smell
but their acute hearing is also pretty
impressive
they can hear as far as 800 feet away
they're even able to catch the sound of
their prey tensing its muscles
tiger sharks aren't fuzzy eaters they'll
settle for
pretty much anything that happens to be
in the water including
barbie dolls license plates tires and
rubber boots
no wonder these sharks have the nickname
garbage can of the sea
the shark skeleton isn't made of bones
it consists of only cartilage and muscle
which is much less dense than bones
that's why they're such
great swimmers and can make sharp turns
thanks to their flexibility
they're also older than dinosaurs
scientists believe
sharks have been around for about 450
million years
their ancestors were a group of fish
called acanthodians
or spiny sharks they looked like small
sharks but had different fins
for comparison the first dinosaurs
appeared more than 200 million years
later
sharks have rows and rows of teeth and
can grow as many as 30
000 teeth in a lifetime boy wouldn't
that keep the dental office busy
they'd only need one patient depending
on the species
they can have up to 15 rows in each jaw
at the front they have the most powerful
teeth and at the back they get smaller
since their teeth aren't deeply rooted
like humans sharks often lose them
but grow new ones right away in other
words their jaws are like
conveyor belts of teeth believe it or
not
sharks and humans have a common ancestor
that lived around 440 million years ago
even though we both evolved in our own
way there are still some signs of that
connection
for example the genome of an elephant
shark is very similar to humans
sharks don't sleep they're up all night
watching bright side
many species have to that was a joke
many species have to keep water moving
over their gills to get oxygen
so they can't fall into a deep sleep
like we do
that's why they stay half awake during
rest typically
sharks don't even close their eyes
there's a rare species
the goblin shark that's so old it was
nicknamed the living fossil
the goblin shark has been around for
more than 100 million years
it has pink skin and an odd-looking flat
snout
these animals usually live close to the
ocean floor
deep underwater sharks have a sixth
sense
and they like bruce willis very much
actually no
but they can navigate and hunt even in
complete darkness or murky waters
thanks to special cells in their head
that can detect electricity
and all animals produce weak electric
fields because of the difference in the
ion concentration
between their bodies and seawater this
ability to detect electricity
makes them the best electrical sensors
on the planet
the average length of a great white is
23 feet however
the largest shark people have come
across was 26 feet long
wow that's half the length of a
basketball court
despite such an impressive size great
white sharks can move at a speed of 35
miles per hour
which is really fast for underwater
traffic the bite of a great white has a
terrifying force of 1.8 tons per square
inch
that's 10 times more forceful than a
lion's bite
as for the teeth themselves a great
white has five rows of teeth
each row contains 46 teeth and each
tooth is of a size similar to a human
palm
with a length of 3.5 inches by the way
these guys don't ever get cavities
hundreds of teeth can fall out and
regrow within a shark's lifetime
lucky them female sharks grow to be much
larger than males
at maturity a great white can reach a
weight of a thousand five hundred to two
thousand four hundred pounds
and now brace yourself the heaviest
great white shark on record
weighed an epic 7 328 pounds
there's almost no place on earth where
you won't have an opportunity to meet a
great white shark
these animals hunt along the coasts of
all the continents well
except for antarctica as the water there
is too cold the temperature great whites
prefer
ranges from 54 degrees fahrenheit to 75
degrees fahrenheit
but if you're really eager to make the
acquaintance of a great white shark
come to dyer island in south africa this
place is also called
shark alley and since most great white
sharks choose exactly this location for
life
you can see why researchers are sure
that great white sharks have been
roaming the seas for the last 16 million
years
perhaps even more and while scientists
used to believe that a great white's
life expectancy didn't exceed 25 years
new research proves that these predators
typically live up to 70 years
sleeper sharks look unlike any other
shark their body is shaped like a
torpedo they have a wide blunt head
and their mouth is pretty small the
biggest representatives of this species
can grow as long as 23 feet
one more thing that makes pacific
sleepers stand apart is their color
it's not that silver and white shade
you'd expect from a proper shark
dark gray or even black help specific
sharks blend in with the sunless depths
in which they live
in addition pacific sleepers have tiny
eyes which are most often colonized by
parasites
these nightmarish minuscule creatures
occupy the outer layer of the shark's
eye
and munch on the tissue making the
sharks almost blind
luckily they have a perfect sense of
smell to help them not to starve
it's probably obvious that pacific
sharks live in the pacific ocean
but while researchers used to think that
this species lived only in the north
some of the gigantic predators have been
spotted near mexico
and even taiwan the tiger shark is one
of the largest shark species in the
world
their average length can reach 16 feet
but the largest specimen reached
24 feet they can weigh 800 to 1500
pounds which is heavier than the average
horse
why exactly are they called tiger sharks
it's because when a baby shark is born
it's covered with dark stripes
resembling those of a tiger
unfortunately this pretty pattern fades
when a shark becomes older
just like their namesakes tiger sharks
are excellent hunters
besides using their perfect eyesight and
developed sense of smell
these sharks have one more advantage
near their snouts are special pores
filled with a substance that resembles
jelly
this substance can sense electric fields
all living beings give off some kind of
electric field
thus a tiger shark can always find its
prey
the most unique thing about a tiger
shark is its teeth
they are not just super sharp they also
have saw-like edges
these teeth are so strong that they can
easily bite through a clamp or a sea
turtle
uh-oh one more unwanted image to make
our nightmares more exciting
bizarre deep-sea cucumbers are bigger
than their shallow water relatives
and have been spotted at a depth of 35
feet these creatures spend most of their
time on the sea floor
but if they have to escape predators
they can swim away
deep sea cucumbers have bright purplish
coloring
tiny feet and tentacles that surround
its mouth
the telescope octopus drifts at a depth
of more than 6500 feet
unlike other octopuses that prefer
hanging around near the seafloor
its body is almost entirely transparent
and there is a
filmy webbing between its tentacles the
octopus also has protruding
telescope-like eyeballs
they rotate and provide the animal with
impressive peripheral vision
the comb jelly is a stunning oval
creature with eight rows of
teeny paddling plates that look like
combs
when the jelly swims these plates
disperse light
which creates the trademark rainbow
effect the comb jelly has been roaming
the oceans for at least
500 million years and despite its name
the creature has little in common with
jellyfish these species aren't even
genetically related
the tripod fish adapted to the almost
complete darkness of the mariana trench
by abandoning its vision this creature
has super long
feathery fins that allow it to perch on
the seafloor
the fish has to rely on vibration and
touch descent's prey
when it does the tripod fish uses its
fins as
hands to transport food directly into
its mouth
as for the owl fish it has giant eyes
that catch even the faintest glimmers of
life
and those are scarce at a depth of
almost 22 000 feet
that's how deep this creature can live
hard
shell shrimp-like creatures called
amphipods
can live at 33 000 feet below the
surface
the largest of them grow up to 12 inches
long
their exoskeletons are made of calcium
carbonate
interestingly this substance dissolves
if you go deeper than 15 000
feet the pressure is too great and the
temperature too low
but amphipods have a protective shield
made of
aluminum
giant clams are the largest mollusks in
the world
they can grow around four feet in length
and weigh more than 440 pounds
so if you're planning on trying to pick
one up you might want to train first by
lifting two baby elephants at once each
and every one of these clams has its own
unique coloration
which makes them one of the most
visually stunning creatures in the ocean
it usually keeps to itself and lives off
sugars and protein produced by algae
and if you find house hunting a
stressful experience you might have some
sympathy for the giant clam
it lives in the warm waters of the south
pacific and indian oceans
and before settling down it needs to
find the perfect location
it searches far and wide for the ideal
spot of sand or coral reef to call home
it's got to be good because this
creature will remain in the same place
for the rest of its life
when left undisturbed they can live for
over 100 years
now this crab looks like something you'd
see in a video game or
some sci-fi alien movie my goodness
just look at it the giant spider crab
lives in the waters near japan
their legs reach about 11 and a half
feet from claw to claw
and the body can be around 14.5 inches
in diameter
it spends most of its time looking for
animal remains mollusks and shellfish to
feed on
but don't be fooled thinking this crab
looks a little twiggy and weak
its massive size alone keeps most
predators away